Address Til's comments. (#80)
scionassociation/scion-cp_I-D: draft-dekater-scion-controlplane.md

- Neighbor-based path discovery: Path discovery in SCION is performed by the beaconing mechanism. In order to participate in this process, an AS only needs to be aware of its direct neighbors. As long as no path segments are available, communicating with the neighboring ASes is possible with the one hop path type which does not rely on any path information. SCION uses these *one hop paths* to propagate PCBs to neighboring ASes to which no forwarding path is available yet. The One Hop Path Type is described in more detail in {{I-D.dekater-scion-dataplane}}.
- Path segment types: SCION uses different types of path segments to compose end-to-end paths. Notably, a single path segment already enables intra-ISD communication. For example, a non-core AS can reach the core of the local ISD simply by using an up segment fetched from the local path storage which is populated during the beaconing process.
- Path reversal: In SCION, every path is reversible. That is, the receiver of a packet can reverse the path in the packet header in order to produce a reply packet without having to perform a path lookup. Such a packet follows the original packet's path backwards.

> - Availability of certificates: In SCION, every entity is required to be in possession of all cryptographic material (including the ISD's TRC and certificates) that is needed to verify any message it sends. This (together with the path reversal) means that the receiver of a message can always obtain all this material by contacting the sender. This avoids circular dependencies between the PKI and connectivity.<br>

Author: Explaining bootstraping flows is always hard...
The statement about knowing only immediate neighbors is absolutely true.
The path to a core AS comes from beaconing; which is enabled by having connectivity with only the immediate parent and children ASes. One-hop paths can be crafted without any prior communication. If beaconing works, then all ASes learn paths to core ASes; which they can then query to obtain segments to construct all other paths.

**Note:** For a detailed description of a TRC and more information on the availability of certificates and TRCs, see the SCION Control-Plane PKI {{I-D.dekater-scion-pki}}.

## Resistance to partitioning

Besides inter-dependencies, another threat to the Internet is network partitionig which occurs when one network is split into two because of a link failure. Partitioning of the global SCION inter-domain network is much less likely to happen as during normal operation the full network fabric is available, offering multiple paths between all ASes. Even during failures there is no special failure mode required as SCION-enabled ASes can always switch to already known paths that use other links.

> Recovering from a partitioned network is also seamless as only coarse time synchronization between the partitions is required to resume normal operation and move forward with updates of the cryptographic material. [](#clock-inaccuracy) further describes the impact of time synchronization.

Reviewer: I think referencing this section would address Til's comment: 
> Also: Does "Healing" include "adding new links"? In this case we also need to wait for the propagation interval and the origination interval.
As I understand, with propagation interval being set to e.g. 10Minutes, this adds up to 5hops1/210min= 25minutes for 5 hops.

```suggestion
Recovering from a partitioned network is also seamless as only coarse time synchronization between the partitions is required to resume normal operation and move forward with updates of the cryptographic material. [](#clock-inaccuracy) further describes the impact of time synchronization and [](#clock-inaccuracy) the impact of path discovery time.
```

Also, we don't set an upper bound to propagation interval. Shall we?

Author: Did you refer to the same clock-inaccuracy sectoin twice in a row, in your suggestion?

Author: As for propagation intervals; no I don't think so. Do I need to double check? Should we have a limit to reduce healing time? It is true that paths may take a long time to become known. That's a problem if they break often.

The rest of the space is currently unallocated.

## Bootstrapping ability

A secure and reliable routing architecture has to be designed specifically to avoid circular dependencies during network bootstrapping. One goal is that the SCION network can start up even after large outages or attacks, in addition to avoiding cascades of outages caused by fragile interdependencies. This section lists the concepts SCION uses to prevent circular dependencies:

- Neighbor-based path discovery: Path discovery in SCION is performed by the beaconing mechanism. In order to participate in this process, an AS only needs to be aware of its direct neighbors. As long as no path segments are available, communicating with the neighboring ASes is possible with the one hop path type which does not rely on any path information. SCION uses these *one hop paths* to propagate PCBs to neighboring ASes to which no forwarding path is available yet. The One Hop Path Type is described in more detail in {{I-D.dekater-scion-dataplane}}.

> - Path segment types: SCION uses different types of path segments to compose end-to-end paths. Notably, a single path segment already enables intra-ISD communication. For example, a non-core AS can reach the core of the local ISD simply by using an up segment fetched from the local path storage which is populated during the beaconing process.

Reviewer: @jiceatscion do you think this point is relevant to bootstrapping? I don't feel it is that much, so I think it could be removed:
```suggestion
```

- Path reversal: In SCION, every path is reversible. That is, the receiver of a packet can reverse the path in the packet header in order to produce a reply packet without having to perform a path lookup. Such a packet follows the original packet's path backwards.
- Availability of certificates: In SCION, every entity is required to be in possession of all cryptographic material (including the ISD's TRC and certificates) that is needed to verify any message it sends. This (together with the path reversal) means that the receiver of a message can always obtain all this material by contacting the sender. This avoids circular dependencies between the PKI and connectivity.<br>

> **Note:** For a detailed description of a TRC and more information on the availability of certificates and TRCs, see the SCION Control-Plane PKI {{I-D.dekater-scion-pki}}.

Reviewer: @jiceatscion how are certificates requested? Right now we reference the PKI draft, but I could not find where requesting certs is described. Could we add a better and more precise reference?

Reviewer: I guess this might be what I am referring to: https://docs.scion.org/en/latest/cryptography/interactions.html

Author: Far as I know, what you want is here: https://github.com/scionproto/scion/blob/abd39afe0a83199aca5ad59d6cc4cc383c89d4cf/proto/control_plane/v1/cppki.proto#L55
I do not know if we described the full pki rpc API anywhere. I wasn't much involved in the cppki draft.

Author: Indeed, https://docs.scion.org/en/latest/cryptography/interactions.html#messages seems to be as much doc as we have.

Reviewer: https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cp_I-D/issues/96

For example, the text representation of AS number 65551 (0x1000f) in ISD number 4 is `4-0000:1:f`.

> ## Bootstrapping ability

Author: Do you mean to replace the title "Bootstrapping" with "PKI-network circular dependency"? Why? Certificates aren't the only objects involved in the bootstrapping process. Also I suggest avoiding the phrase "circular dependencies" in section titles. It gives the impression that it's a feature. The feature is the opposite: the ability to bootstrap (or "cold-start" if that's the term we prefer).

> ## Bootstrapping ability

Reviewer 2: To clarify, my suggestion was to either use only one term (not both) or, otherwise explicitly state that they mean the name thing.
Just using them both without saying that they are the same is probably confusing. I think the least confusing thing would be to have only one term. This may also come up with reviewers.

> ## Bootstrapping ability

Reviewer: Indeed, I meant that we choose one and stick to it.

In the current draft version, these are the uses: 
Bootstrap
* ## Bootstrapping ability (this chapter)
* To bootstrap the initial communication with a neighboring beacon service,
* the following bootstrapping strategies apply:
* In the changelog (irrelevant)

Cold start: 
* Interesting metrics for scalability and speed of path discovery are the time until all discoverable path segments have been discovered after a "**cold start**", and the time until new link is usable. 
* On a **cold start** of the network, path segments to each AS are discovered within a numbe
* On a **cold start** of the network, full connectivity is obtained after a number of propagation steps

Plus:
*  In the PKI draft we talk about bootstrapping of trust
* In the DP we talk about one-hop path types  "The OneHopPath path type (PathType=2) is currently used to bootstrap" 

Bootstrap wins, i will change instances of cold start

> ## Bootstrapping ability

Reviewer: Done, resolving

PCBs contain topology and authentication information, and can also include additional metadata that helps with path management and selection. The beaconing process itself is divided into routing processes on two levels, where *inter-ISD* or core beaconing is based on the (selective) sending of PCBs without a defined direction, and *intra-ISD* beaconing on top-to-bottom propagation.

- *Inter-ISD or core beaconing* is the process of constructing path segments between core ASes in the same or in different ISDs. During core beaconing, the Control Service of a core AS either initiates PCBs or propagates PCBs received from neighboring core ASes to other neighboring core ASes. PCBs are periodically sent over policy compliant paths to discover multiple paths between any pair of core ASes.

> - *Intra-ISD beaconing* creates path segments from core ASes to non-core ASes. For this, the Control Services of core ASes create PCBs and sends them to the non-core child ASes (typically customer ASes) at regular intervals. The Control Service of a non-core child AS receives these PCBs and forwards them to its child ASes, and so on until the PCB reaches an AS without any customer (leaf AS). As a result, all ASes within an ISD receive path segments to reach the core ASes of their ISD  and register reciprocal segments with the Control Service of the associated core ASes.

Author: without any customer -> without any children

- *Inter-ISD or core beaconing* is the process of constructing path segments between core ASes in the same or in different ISDs. During core beaconing, the Control Service of a core AS either initiates PCBs or propagates PCBs received from neighboring core ASes to other neighboring core ASes. PCBs are periodically sent over policy compliant paths to discover multiple paths between any pair of core ASes.
- *Intra-ISD beaconing* creates path segments from core ASes to non-core ASes. For this, the Control Services of core ASes create PCBs and sends them to the non-core child ASes (typically customer ASes) at regular intervals. The Control Service of a non-core child AS receives these PCBs and forwards them to its child ASes, and so on until the PCB reaches an AS without any children (leaf AS). As a result, all ASes within an ISD receive path segments to reach the core ASes of their ISD  and register reciprocal segments with the Control Service of the associated core ASes.

> On its way, a PCB accumulates cryptographically protected path and forwarding information per traversed AS. At every AS, metadata as well as information about the AS's ingress and egress interfaces is added to the PCB. The full PCB message format is described in [](#pcbs).
> 
> The process of using PCBs to construct segments is described in details in [](#path-segment-reg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On its way, a PCB accumulates cryptographically protected path and forwarding information per traversed AS. At every AS, metadata as well as information about the AS's ingress and egress interfaces is added to the PCB. The full PCB message format is described in [](#pcbs). PCBs are used to construct path segments. ASes register them to make them available to other ASes, as described in [](#path-segment-reg).
```

* Have a timestamp ([](#seginfo)) that is not in the future.
* Contain only unexpired hops ([](#hopfield)).

> For the purpose of validation, a timestamp is considered "future" if it is later than the current time at the point of validation plus an allowance for differences between local and origination clock. As an allowance, it is suggested to use the granularity of the hopfield expiration time (that is 337.5 seconds, see [](#hopfield)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purpose of validation, a timestamp is considered "future" if it is later than the current time at the point of validation plus an allowance for differences between the validator's and originator's clock. As an allowance, it is recommended to use the granularity of the hopfield expiration time (that is 337.5 seconds, see [](#hopfield)).
```
